---
id: Jenkins
title: Using OpenEBS for Jenkins
sidebar_label: Jenkins
---
------

This section demonstrates the deployment of Jenkins as a pod in a Kubernetes cluster. You can spawn a Jenkins deployment which will use OpenEBS as its persistent storage.

Deploying Jenkins as a Pod
--------------------------

Deploying Jenkins as a pod provides the following benefits.

-   Isolates different jobs from one another
-   Quickly cleans a job’s workspace.
-   Dynamically deploys or schedules jobs with Kubernetes pods
-   Allows increased resource utilization and efficiency

Deploying Jenkins Pod with Persistent Storage
---------------------------------------------

Before getting started, check the status of the cluster using the following command. 

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s$ kubectl get nodes
    NAME            STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
    kubemaster-01   Ready     master    16m       v1.9.4
    kubeminion-01   Ready     <none>    12m       v1.9.4
    kubeminion-02   Ready     <none>    9m        v1.9.4
    kubeminion-03   Ready     <none>    7m        v1.9.4

Also make sure that you have deployed OpenEBS in your cluster.

```
ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s$ kubectl get pods -n openebs
NAME                                           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
maya-apiserver-84fd4f776d-lvxcp                1/1       Running   0          6m
openebs-provisioner-74cb999586-268k7           1/1       Running   0          6m
openebs-snapshot-controller-6449b4cdbb-24fz4   2/2       Running   0          6m
```

Download and apply the Jenkins YAML file from the OpenEBS repository using the following commands. 

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~$ git clone https://github.com/openebs/openebs
    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~$ cd openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins
    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins$ kubectl apply -f jenkins.yml
    persistentvolumeclaim "jenkins-claim" created
    deployment "jenkins" created
    service "jenkins-svc" created

Get the status of running pods using the following command.  Applications are running in 

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins$ kubectl get pods
    NAME                                                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    jenkins-6bc67f99d7-jpn62                                        1/1       Running   0          30m
    pvc-e4bcafe4-791c-11e8-ae41-02b983f0a4db-ctrl-dcbb9f74c-smvnl   2/2       Running   0          30m
    pvc-e4bcafe4-791c-11e8-ae41-02b983f0a4db-rep-5547d6bcd-8cw4z    1/1       Running   0          30m
    pvc-e4bcafe4-791c-11e8-ae41-02b983f0a4db-rep-5547d6bcd-fjj7d    1/1       Running   0          30m
    pvc-e4bcafe4-791c-11e8-ae41-02b983f0a4db-rep-5547d6bcd-q4tm8    1/1       Running   0          30m
    

Get the status of underlying persistent volumes used by Jenkins deployment using the following command. 

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins$ kubectl get pvc
    NAME            STATUS    VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS       AGE
    jenkins-claim   Bound     pvc-e4bcafe4-791c-11e8-ae41-02b983f0a4db   5G         RWO            openebs-standard   21m

Get the status of Jenkins service using the following command. 

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins$ kubectl get svc
    NAME                                                TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
    jenkins-svc                                         NodePort    10.109.111.160   <none>        80:30577/TCP        21m
    kubernetes                                          ClusterIP   10.96.0.1        <none>        443/TCP             1h
    pvc-e4bcafe4-791c-11e8-ae41-02b983f0a4db-ctrl-svc   ClusterIP   10.106.18.214    <none>        3260/TCP,9501/TCP   21m                     

Launching Jenkins
-----------------

The Jenkins deployment YAML, creates a NodePort service type to make Jenkins available outside the cluster.

**Note:**

The cluster is setup using vagrant VMs and the IP addresses are autogenerated by vagrant.

Get the node IP Address that is running the Jenkins pod using the following command. 

    ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins$ kubectl describe pod jenkins-6bc67f99d7-r6hw7 | grep Node:
    Node:           kubeminion-02/172.28.128.5

Get the port number from the Jenkins service using the following command. 

```
ubuntu@kubemaster-01:~/openebs/k8s/demo/jenkins$ kubectl describe svc jenkins-svc | grep NodePort:
NodePort:                 <unset>  30577/TCP
```

Open the <https://172.28.128.5:30577> URL in your browser.

**Note:**

The NodePort is dynamically allocated and may vary in a different deployment.

Once you access the URL the Getting Started page is displayed. The following procedure helps you setup Jenkins.

1.  Provide the **initialAdminPassword** in the *Unlock Jenkins* screen and copy the password in the **Administrator password** field.
2.  Click **Continue**.
3.  Get the password using the following command: :

    ubuntu@kubemaster:~kubectl exec -it jenkins-2748455067-85jv2 cat /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword
    7d7aaedb5a2a441b99117b3bb55c1eff

4.  In the *Customize Jenkins* screen click **Install suggested plugins**.
5.  Configure the Administrator user in the *Create First Admin User* screen. Fill in the following fields.

    a.  **Username:** - Key in the administrator username.
    b.  **Password:** - Key in the password for the administrator.
    c.  **Confirm password** - Key in the password again and confirm.

    d. **Full name** - Key in the administrator's full name.
6.  Click **Continue as admin** if you want to perform further administrator tasks or click **Save and Finish**.

You can now start using Jenkins.



<!-- Hotjar Tracking Code for https://docs.openebs.io -->
<script>
   (function(h,o,t,j,a,r){
       h.hj=h.hj||function(){(h.hj.q=h.hj.q||[]).push(arguments)};
       h._hjSettings={hjid:785693,hjsv:6};
       a=o.getElementsByTagName('head')[0];
       r=o.createElement('script');r.async=1;
       r.src=t+h._hjSettings.hjid+j+h._hjSettings.hjsv;
       a.appendChild(r);
   })(window,document,'https://static.hotjar.com/c/hotjar-','.js?sv=');
</script>
